PMID34383889_protocol-01
Excerpted from DOI: 10.1093/cid/ciab701

METHODS

SUPPLEMENTAL METHODS

Study Design

The CO-HOST Study evaluated SARS-CoV-2 transmission in the households of individuals who tested positive
and quarantined at home. Here we describe the pre-planned primary analysis of the secondary attack rate and
risk factors associated with SARS-CoV-2 transmission in the household setting in the southern United States.
Study follow-up started in April 2020 and ended in November 2020.

Ethics, standards and informed consent

The study was approved by the Institutional Review Board at the University of North Carolina and is registered
as an observational study at clinicaltrials.gov (NCT04445233). All participants (or their parents/guardians) gave
written, informed consent. Minors over the ages of 7 provided assent.

Role of the Funding source

None

Study setting

Index cases were recruited from April to October 2020 after testing at the Respiratory Diagnostic Center (RDC)
at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine in Chapel Hill, a drive through testing venue on the
medical center campus. Three index cases and three household contacts (all from different households) also
enrolled in a treatment study through the RDC in which they were randomized to receive either the oral drug
EIDD-2801 (molnupiravir) or placebo (NCT04405570). Participants were visited between 3-4 times at their
private homes using a mobile unit van and returned to the Respiratory Diagnostic Center for the final study
visit.

Study objectives and outcomes

The primary objective was to evaluate the secondary household attack rate among household members of
persons quarantined in their home after testing positive for SARS-CoV-2.
The primary study endpoint was SARS-CoV-2 infection in the household contacts as determined by real-time
PCR of nasopharyngeal or nasal swabs for SARS-CoV-2 at any of the timepoints or evidence of seroconversion
during the study based on anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody testing.
A secondary objective was to assess individual and household risk factors associated with SARS-CoV-2
transmission in the household.

Symptom evaluation and severity classification

Within the baseline questionnaire, participants were asked to quantify the number of days symptoms were
present for any symptom reported. Symptom diaries consisted of a checklist of 14 symptoms in both English
and Spanish that the participant completed if they answered “Yes” to “Are you having any symptoms?”. Index
cases completed daily symptom diaries until no symptoms were reported for two consecutive days. Household
contacts received daily symptom evaluations until study day 21 to evaluate for symptoms that could be
consistent with new infection. If the participant failed to fill out a symptom diary for two consecutive days,
they were contacted by study staff and symptom evaluation was performed over the phone. Questionnaires
and symptom diaries for minors were sent to and completed by their designated guardians.

Participants were categorized as having asymptomatic, or having mild, moderate, or severe/hospitalized
symptoms based on a modified CDC definition19. Symptoms were quantified cumulatively over the course of
the study to capture both number of symptoms per day and duration of symptoms. For example, if an
individual reported 1 symptom on day 1, 3 symptoms on day 2, and 1 symptom on day 3 they would be
considered to have 5 cumulative symptoms. Participants were considered asymptomatic if they reported at
most 1 symptom for the duration of their enrollment. Additionally, the symptom reported could not be
anosmia, dyspnea, or new or worsening cough. Participants were considered to have mild illness if they
reported between 2 and 10 cumulative symptoms or if they reported 1 symptom of anosmia, dyspnea, or new
or worsening cough. Participants were considered to have moderate illness if they reported 11 or more
cumulative symptoms but were not hospitalized. Patients were categorized as having severe illness if they
were hospitalized or died during the course of the study.

Laboratory analyses

All samples collected during the study were placed into a cooler on ice immediately after collection and
transported within two hours to a Biosafety Laboratory (BSL) Level 2+ laboratory. Study participants who were
hospitalized or left the household for other reasons were still followed until Day 28 to record outcomes, but
sample collection was suspended.

qRT-PCR SARS-CoV-2 viral quantification

NP and NMT swab samples were tested using a Centers for Disease Control (CDC) RT-qPCR protocol authorized
by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency use that consists of three unique assays: two
targeting regions of the virus’ nucleocapsid gene (N1, N2) and one targeting human RNase P gene (RP) (Catalog
# 2019-nCoVEUA-01, Integrated DNA Technologies) [1]. Details of assay implementation and calculation of the
limit of detection are described elsewhere [2]. Briefly, samples were designated positive if all three PCRs were
positive (N1 and N2 for virus, RP for adequate sampling). The viral load of each sample, in copies/uL, was
extrapolated from standard curves generated for each viral assay (N1 and N2) using serial dilutions of the
nCoVPC plasmid control (2 to 100,000 viral RNA copies/uL). The average copies/uL between the N1 and N2
assays was used as the final quantitative viral load. Probit analysis yielded a limit of detection (LOD) for the N1
and N2 assays of 9 and 13 copies/uL, respectively. Thus, the average LOD between the two assays, 11
copies/uL, was used as the cutoff for sample positivity. Based on the sample collection and RNA extraction
volumes as well as volume of template RNA used in the RT-qPCR (5uL), the reported viral load represents the
number of viral RNA copies per 5 uL of VTM or Shield sample.

Serology:

Rapid Test

The BioMedomics COVID-19 IgM/IgG Rapid Test is a point-of-care lateral flow immunoassay (LFIA)
that has been validated as a research tool [4]. Approximately 20 microliters of finger prick blood was obtained
via a capillary sampler and dispensed on the sample port of the device. Two to three drops of buffer/developer
solution were applied and results were read after 10 minutes by trained study staff. Positive, weak positive,
and negative bands for IgM and IgG were recorded and a photograph was stored. A second reader reviewed
the photographs blinded to the field results and consensus was reached on discrepant readings.

Immunoassay to detect antibodies against the receptor binding domain (RBD) of the spike protein

Plasma samples were heat inactivated at 56°C for 30 minutes, then total Ig binding to the receptor binding
domain (RBD) of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein was measured using a previously described enzyme-linked
immunosorbent (ELISA) assay [5,6]. Briefly, biotinylated recombinant antigen produced in mammalian cells
consisting of SARS-2 Spike RBD is captured on a 96-well ELISA plate coated with streptavidin. The serum sample
at 1:40 dilution is incubated with the RBD-captured wells, and bound antigen detected using HRP conjugated
anti-goat total (IgG, IgM and IgA) antibody on a microplate reader. This in-house ELISA was previously
evaluated on a large panel of well characterized samples and shown to have high sensitivity and specificity for
detecting SARS-CoV-2 infection.